README.rst, before:

=============
Tree Labeller
=============

The command line tool that helps label all leaves of a tree based only on a small sample of manually labelled leaves.

Sample scenarios include:

- Assigning shop departments to products organized in a taxonomy of categories
- Mapping taxonomy of book categories in one library to flat vocabulary of book categories in another library

This can be helpful when migrating data from one e-commerce system to another or preparing labelled data for machine learning project.

Here's example of the first task:

.. image:: docs/imgs/tree_1.png

Labelling with the tool is a semi-automatic iterative process. You start by labeling few samples and the rule-based prediction algorithm tries to learn and tag the rest of the data set for you. You then correct predicted labels for a sample of most ambiguous items and the algorithm repeats prediction based on labels you provided. The algorithm suggests the most diverse sample of items to label, i.e. coming from different categories, so you don't waste time with samples that have high chance of having same label.

Install
=======

Install with pip:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install tree-labeller


Usage
=====

Describe your taxonomy in form of YAML file, e.g.: ``tree.yaml``

.. code-block:: yaml

    name: categories
    id: 1
    children:
    - name: Alcoholic Drinks
      id: 11
      children:
      - name: Whiskies
        id: 111
        children:
        - name: Jack Daniel's
          id: 1111
        - name: Johnnie Walker's
          id: 1112
      - name: Wines
        id: 112
        children:
        - name: Cabernet Sauvignon
          id: 1121
      - name: Beers
        id: 113
        children:
        - name: Guinness
          id: 1131

Create labelling task:

.. code-block:: bash

    create_task \
        --dir ./my_labels \
        --tree ./tree.yaml \
        --allowed-labels Label1,Label2,Label3

Generate a sample:

.. code-block:: bash

    label --dir ./my_labels --sample 10

Annotate a file with samples.

Run predictions and generate another sample of ambiguous and non labeled items. Items in the sample are sorted starting from the most ambiguous ones, i.e., having many possible label candidates.

.. code-block:: bash

    label ./my_labels --sample 10

Repeat the process until you are satisfied.


After each iteration you will get statistics to help you decide when to stop labelling:

.. code-block:: bash

      Iteration    Manual    Univocal    Ambiguous    Missing    Total    Allowed Labels
    -----------  --------  ----------  -----------  ---------  -------  ----------------
              1         0          0%           0%       100%    14456                0%
              2        10         71%          29%         0%    14456               37%

In the ideal situation we want to have 100% of univocal predictions, 0% of ambiguous and missing predictions and 100% of allowed labels (departments) coverage while providing as few manual labels as possible.

If you decide to continue, you can do one or more of the following actions:

- Correct ambiguous predicted labels in a sample.
- Correct your previous manual labels.
- Label with ``?`` to skip the product from the prediction (it won't be sampled next time).
- Label with ``!`` to tell the algorithm that the product ,and perhaps its category, are not present in the target shop (the algorithm will try to learn other similar products that might be not present in a shop)
- If one of departments have no products labeled so far, you can search for matching products manually and add them to the sample with correct label. For search you can use last TSV file with univocal predicted labels.
- You can also occasionally review univocal predicted labels and correct them by adding to the sample.

Task artifacts
=================

In the labelling task directory the following artifacts are generated:

==================== ============================================================================
Filename             Description
==================== ============================================================================
config.yaml          Labeling task configuration.
tree.yaml            Taxonomy to label.
[n]-to-verify.tsv    Taxonomy leaves selected after n-th iteration for labelling/verification.
[n]-good.tsv         Taxonomy leaves with non-ambiguous labels predicted after n-th iteration.
[n]-mapping.tsv      Maps taxonomy categories (inner nodes) to labels after n-th iteration.
[n]-stats.json       Labeling statistics after n-th iteration.
all-stats.jsonl      Sequence of all iterations statistics accumulated so far.
==================== ============================================================================




Documentation
=============

* `Demo`_
* `Sampling taxonomy leaves for manual labelling`_
* `Distributing labelling budget`_
* `Predicting labels`_

.. _Demo: docs/demo.rst
.. _Sampling taxonomy leaves for manual labelling: docs/sampling.md
.. _Distributing labelling budget: docs/budget.md
.. _Predicting labels: docs/predicting.md


Development
===========

Install poetry:

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-poetry/poetry/master/get-poetry.py | python -

Install dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash

    poetry install

Activate virtual environment:

.. code-block:: bash

    poetry shell

Install locally to test scripts:

.. code-block:: bash

    deactivate
    poetry build
    pip install dist/tree_labeller-0.1.0-py3-none-any.whl



Acknowledgements
----------------

I would like to thank to:

- members of `Computer Science Stack Exchange`_ for help in developing algorithms
- my girlfriend Renata for help in mapping our local grocery store
- my colleagues from `Samsung R&D Poland`_ for feedback.

.. _Computer Science Stack Exchange: https://cs.stackexchange.com/
.. _Samsung R&D Poland: https://research.samsung.com/srpol

Commit message:

Update installation instructions for #10 and #11

README.rst, after:

=============
Tree Labeller
=============

The command line tool that helps label all leaves of a tree based only on a small sample of manually labelled leaves.

Sample scenarios include:

- Assigning shop departments to products organized in a taxonomy of categories
- Mapping taxonomy of book categories in one library to flat vocabulary of book categories in another library

This can be helpful when migrating data from one e-commerce system to another or preparing labelled data for machine learning project.

Here's example of the first task:

.. image:: docs/imgs/tree_1.png

Labelling with the tool is a semi-automatic iterative process. You start by labeling few samples and the rule-based prediction algorithm tries to learn and tag the rest of the data set for you. You then correct predicted labels for a sample of most ambiguous items and the algorithm repeats prediction based on labels you provided. The algorithm suggests the most diverse sample of items to label, i.e. coming from different categories, so you don't waste time with samples that have high chance of having same label.

Install
=======

The library is not present in any public PyPI. Once it will be published, we will provide installation instructions.

For now, follow development guidelines.

Usage
=====

Describe your taxonomy in form of YAML file, e.g.: ``tree.yaml``

.. code-block:: yaml

    name: categories
    id: 1
    children:
    - name: Alcoholic Drinks
      id: 11
      children:
      - name: Whiskies
        id: 111
        children:
        - name: Jack Daniel's
          id: 1111
        - name: Johnnie Walker's
          id: 1112
      - name: Wines
        id: 112
        children:
        - name: Cabernet Sauvignon
          id: 1121
      - name: Beers
        id: 113
        children:
        - name: Guinness
          id: 1131

Create labelling task:

.. code-block:: bash

    create_task \
        --dir ./my_labels \
        --tree ./tree.yaml \
        --allowed-labels Label1,Label2,Label3

Generate a sample:

.. code-block:: bash

    label --dir ./my_labels --sample 10

Annotate a file with samples.

Run predictions and generate another sample of ambiguous and non labeled items. Items in the sample are sorted starting from the most ambiguous ones, i.e., having many possible label candidates.

.. code-block:: bash

    label ./my_labels --sample 10

Repeat the process until you are satisfied.


After each iteration you will get statistics to help you decide when to stop labelling:

.. code-block:: bash

      Iteration    Manual    Univocal    Ambiguous    Missing    Total    Allowed Labels
    -----------  --------  ----------  -----------  ---------  -------  ----------------
              1         0          0%           0%       100%    14456                0%
              2        10         71%          29%         0%    14456               37%

In the ideal situation we want to have 100% of univocal predictions, 0% of ambiguous and missing predictions and 100% of allowed labels (departments) coverage while providing as few manual labels as possible.

If you decide to continue, you can do one or more of the following actions:

- Correct ambiguous predicted labels in a sample.
- Correct your previous manual labels.
- Label with ``?`` to skip the product from the prediction (it won't be sampled next time).
- Label with ``!`` to tell the algorithm that the product ,and perhaps its category, are not present in the target shop (the algorithm will try to learn other similar products that might be not present in a shop)
- If one of departments have no products labeled so far, you can search for matching products manually and add them to the sample with correct label. For search you can use last TSV file with univocal predicted labels.
- You can also occasionally review univocal predicted labels and correct them by adding to the sample.

Task artifacts
=================

In the labelling task directory the following artifacts are generated:

==================== ============================================================================
Filename             Description
==================== ============================================================================
config.yaml          Labeling task configuration.
tree.yaml            Taxonomy to label.
[n]-to-verify.tsv    Taxonomy leaves selected after n-th iteration for labelling/verification.
[n]-good.tsv         Taxonomy leaves with non-ambiguous labels predicted after n-th iteration.
[n]-mapping.tsv      Maps taxonomy categories (inner nodes) to labels after n-th iteration.
[n]-stats.json       Labeling statistics after n-th iteration.
all-stats.jsonl      Sequence of all iterations statistics accumulated so far.
==================== ============================================================================




Documentation
=============

* `Demo`_
* `Sampling taxonomy leaves for manual labelling`_
* `Distributing labelling budget`_
* `Predicting labels`_

.. _Demo: docs/demo.rst
.. _Sampling taxonomy leaves for manual labelling: docs/sampling.md
.. _Distributing labelling budget: docs/budget.md
.. _Predicting labels: docs/predicting.md


Development
===========

Install poetry:

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -

Install dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash

    poetry install

Activate virtual environment:

.. code-block:: bash

    poetry shell

Install locally to test scripts:

.. code-block:: bash

    deactivate
    poetry build
    pip install dist/tree_labeller-0.1.0-py3-none-any.whl



Acknowledgements
----------------

I would like to thank to:

- members of `Computer Science Stack Exchange`_ for help in developing algorithms
- my girlfriend Renata for help in mapping our local grocery store
- my colleagues from `Samsung R&D Poland`_ for feedback.

.. _Computer Science Stack Exchange: https://cs.stackexchange.com/
.. _Samsung R&D Poland: https://research.samsung.com/srpol
